Why don't we go ahead and
build ourselves a deployable site?
So because this is a monorepo,
Gatsby sites by default,
they're gonna build to
a folder called public.
This is what the build folder looks like.
And they've got this .cache folder which
needs to be kept around between sites.
And now we told Netlify to look
in the the netlify.toml here but
once it looks in here,
it needs to find another
netlify.toml to tell
it what the rules are.
I mean, we could go configure
this to the UI as well but
if we're sending this to other people,
it's just easier to not make them do
the configuration manually when
we can commit it into the code.
So we wanna make sure that it
uses the right workspace command.
So we're gonna say yarn workspace
site build is our command instead of
the autodetected Gatsby
build that we would get.
We're gonna set our publish
directory to public.
And because it's in this folder,
it's relative, right?
So if we close up source, we're in this
directory and we wanna get to public.
And then I also wanna make
sure this is a quirk that,
honestly, this is something that
I think Netlify needs to improve.
But right out of the gate,
we don't have a lock file in this folder.
The lock file is actually
outside of it in the top level.
So by default, Gatsby won't use yarn.
So I'm gonna tell it to use yarn by
setting an environment variable here.
And this is one way that you can
set an environment variable but
as you can see, I don't know,
this doesn't scale, right?
Having to put a ton of these in,
that's not gonna fly forever, right?
So for one, okay fine,
all good, don't care.
But for multiple,
it's not gonna work very well.
The other thing that we're doing is we're
using these client-only routes where we
want these catch balls.
And that means that there
are redirects being done.
And in order to get redirects to get
picked up properly, we need to install
a plugin that will sync those between
Gatsby and whatever host it's using.
So for netlify,
we will yarn workspace site add, and
then we're gonna add
gatsby-plugin-netlify.
And this is going to make
the redirects work, and
it adds some other stuff like
content security policy headers and
iframe security and some things that
will help with your web speed score.
Once we've got that plugin,
we can just toss it at
the bottom of our gatsby-config.
Doesn't need any options or anything.
So we'll put in gatsby-plugin-netlify,
okay?
And then we can just add all this stuff.
So let's add everything git commit and
say, site ready to deploy.
Let's push it.
Okay, so what I'm gonna do is I
have to use this progress branch,
which means I have to do
an extra step because by default,
what netlify will do is
run off the main branch.
So I'm gonna do a netlify in it.
And actually, I wonder if it'll let
me set the branch, that will be cool.
Nah, that's okay.
So let's do netlify in it and
this is going to walk me
through setting up a new site.
So I'm gonna create and
configure a new site.
And then I'm gonna choose my own team,
and I wanna give this a name.
So let's call it
frontend-masters-intermediate-gatsby.
That's already taken,
let's try another one.
frontend-masters-intermediate-gatsby-proj-
ect.
There we go.
All right, so we already know that we've
got the base set to site and because it's
leading our netlify.toml, well now it can
see it wants yarn workspace I build, good.
It's pulling public, right.
We can ignore that one.
It needs the essential Gatsby plugin.
This is gonna keep the cache around.
It's gonna make Gatsby functions work,
it does a bunch of stuff like that.
Theoretically, you could opt out of it but
I don't know why you would.
So we will let that run and
then, we're off to the races.
So let's open this.
And what I have to do is because I,
see it open in the wrong browser,
let's pull it on to this one.
Because I changed my branch, I'm just
gonna jump into the site settings and
go to Deploy.
Let me make this a little bit bigger so
it's easier to read, and
then go to Build & deploy.
And then I'm gonna change the branch.
And I'm just gonna build this progress
branch that we've been using.
So let me save that,
head out to my deploys.
You don't need to finish that one,
so we can cancel it.
And then I'm gonna go to here and
let's just start again.
So I'm gonna deploy the site.
All right, so here we go.
We're deploying the sit and
this is going to install Node.
It's gonna install all of our packages,
yarn, all the things that we need and
then it's gonna run our
yarn workspaces command.
It'll also compile our functions and
store the cache and
all the stuff that we don't
wanna have to do ourselves, so
that we can just move on with our day and
be happy about having deployed
a site instead of thinking about
how to get that site deployed.
And this will take usually about two
minutes the first time around, and
then it'll drop down to about
a minute on repeat deploys.
The thing about Gatsby is that
it's a really large NPM package,
but we don't ship most of
that to production, right?
Gatsby is a build tool.
So it pulls in a ton of stuff for
building sites.
And then the vast majority of
that is only used for the build,
it doesn't actually get used in
production on the client site.
So it's important to look at not just
the package size because that can be
misleading.
It's important to look at what actually
comes out of the production build,
cuz a very small package can produce
huge bundle sizes if it's not optimized.
And vice versa,
huge package that's optimized well
can create some pretty tiny bundles.
Okay, so we're running the build,
you can see it's installing this plugin.
It doesn't have a Gatsby cache cuz this is
the first time we're building the site.
It's running that yarn workspace
site build, that's what we wanted.
So off to the races we go, and
this will just take a few more seconds.
And then once this finishes,
netlify will bundle the functions,
push all these pages up to the CDN and
then we will be live.
There we go.
Function's bundling, that's done.
It's deploying the site, that goes and
then got ourselves a site.
So we can go look at this now.
We've got our site up on the Internet,
we can go to our Books,
we can go to our Authors,
we can go to the accounts.
And we go.
If we log in, great, log out, great.
All the things that we wanna do, right?
It's all doing what we want, and
we've got our optimized images.
So this is pretty slick.
It's doing what we want.
I'm happy with this, we're able
to get it up pretty quickly, and
it's fairly painless to get this up and
running.
And now any changes that we make will
also automatically build and deploy.